Welcome back. In this video
I want to talk about an important concept in Express and that is middleware.
Let me show you how it works.
If I run the server here I just have a simple server that sends 'testest', Express has a concept of middleware
and if I do 'app.use()' this is a generic Express middleware that I can enter in here.
And what middleware does is – as the name suggests – as the request is coming in it's going to pass through
this 'use' function and then trickle down to whatever we get:
POST, PUT, DELETE and this middleware is going to do something to the request that we just had in order
to perhaps make it easier to work with down here.
Let's demonstrate that example: 'app.use()' receives 'request', 'response' and then something called 'next'.
And within this function
we will just say 'console.log()'
'Helllooo'
If we save and go back here and run localhost, hmmm it's hanging here.
Even if I open up the Console nothing's happening.
If I go back I see that 'helllooo' gets triggered because I'm console logging it but it never reaches here
well that is because in order for the middleware to keep passing data through it needs to call 'next'.
The third parameter.
So now by calling 'next' if I refresh I receive 'testest'.
So the middleware the way it works is we use 'app.use()' it gets the requests of the website; the
request comes through.
We can do whatever we want with it.
In our case we're not really touching it we're just console logging 'helllooo' and then we hit next
and then Express keeps running through these [app.get() and app.listen()].
And although you might be thinking why is this useful?
There are many many cases that I'll show you later on while middleware is important, and middlewares
are great scripts that people have pre-written that you can add to your server but you'll see that more
in the next video.
I just wanted to show you the basic concept of middleware: something that receives ahead of time before
we get to the routes, the request, modifies it and then passes the next function to keep it going.
I'll see in the next one. Bye-bye.